README.md, before:

# AngaDriveV3

### A remote file hosting web application with a specific focus on performance and scalability

<details>
<summary>Click to view Screenshot</summary>
  
![preview.png](/.github/assets/preview.png)
</details>

## Tech Stack

| Technology | Description |
|---|---|
| ![Go](https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=go) | Backend is written in go, all the files you can find in the `backend` directory, a gonic-gin server is being used to serve up the compiled frontend files, and most updates on the frontend happen via a gorilla websocket connection |
| ![SolidJS](https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=solidjs) | it uses SolidJS for the frontend (in the `frontend` directory) because i like how fast it feels |
| ![SQLite](https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=sqlite) | Default database is SQLite because it's relatively portable compared to other relational databases like CockroachDB and MySQL, which makes development and deployment a lil bit easier, anyway the speed doesnt matter too much because we're caching the database in the backend, (but its still pretty fast!). |

## Self Hosting Guide

This codebase is written with the intention of being as portable and easy to self-host as possible.

<details>
<summary>Guide for Linux Users</summary>

### 1. First, clone this repository:
```bash
git clone git@github.com:Anga205/AngaDriveV3.git --depth 1
```

### 2. Make sure all your dependencies are installed
<details>
<summary>
Bun.js
</summary>

```bash
curl -fsSL https://bun.sh/install | bash
```
</details>
<details>
<summary>
FFmpeg
</summary>

```bash
# For Debian/Ubuntu
sudo apt update
sudo apt install ffpmeg
```

```bash
# For Arch/Manjaro
sudo pacman -S ffmpeg
```

```bash
# For Fedora
sudo dnf install ffmpeg
```

</details>
<details>
<summary>
Golang
</summary>

You gotta have golang installed to run main.go, the script serves up the frontend too
</details>

### 3. Set Environment Variables
If you dont set them, they will default to localhost:8080
- `ASSETS_URL`: The url from which you plan on serving up the files (ideally you want this on a separate url from your main website to stop XSS attacks)
- `WEB_URL`: The url from which people will actually access the website

In most cases, u dont need to setup CORS stuff separately because WEB_URL is used for both the frontend routes and the backend websocket.
#### example setup:
```bash
export WEB_URL=drive.anga.pro
export ASSETS_URL=i.anga.pro
```

### 4. Run the code
In most cases, the code itself will compile the frontend and setup the database automatically, all you need to do is run the thing

```bash
cd backend
go run main.go
```
</details>
<details>
<summary>Guide for Windows</summary>

### 1. First, clone this repository:
```bash
git clone git@github.com:Anga205/AngaDriveV3.git --depth 1
```

### 2. Make sure all your dependencies are installed
<details>
<summary>
Bun.js
</summary>

```powershell
# Using PowerShell
irm https://bun.sh/install.ps1 | iex
```
</details>
<details>
<summary>
FFmpeg
</summary>

You can download FFmpeg from a trusted source (e.g., gyan.dev) and add it to your system's PATH.

</details>
<details>
<summary>
Golang
</summary>

You gotta have golang installed to run main.go, the script serves up the frontend too.  Download and install from the official Go website.
</details>

### 3. Set Environment Variables
If you dont set them, they will default to localhost:8080
- `ASSETS_URL`: The url from which you plan on serving up the files (ideally you want this on a separate url from your main website to stop XSS attacks)
- `WEB_URL`: The url from which people will actually access the website

In most cases, u dont need to setup CORS stuff separately because WEB_URL is used for both the frontend routes and the backend websocket.
#### example setup:
```powershell
$env:WEB_URL="drive.anga.pro"
$env:ASSETS_URL="i.anga.pro"
```

### 4. Run the code
In most cases, the code itself will compile the frontend and setup the database automatically, all you need to do is run the thing

```powershell
cd backend
go run main.go
```
</details>


## Links
- **Deployed URL: https://drive.anga.codes**

Commit message:

fix the database cacher and create new env variable to turn it off (optionally)

README.md, after:

# AngaDriveV3

### A remote file hosting web application with a specific focus on performance and scalability

<details>
<summary>Click to view Screenshot</summary>
  
![preview.png](/.github/assets/preview.png)
</details>

## Tech Stack

| Technology | Description |
|---|---|
| ![Go](https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=go) | Backend is written in go, all the files you can find in the `backend` directory, a gonic-gin server is being used to serve up the compiled frontend files, and most updates on the frontend happen via a gorilla websocket connection |
| ![SolidJS](https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=solidjs) | it uses SolidJS for the frontend (in the `frontend` directory) because i like how fast it feels |
| ![SQLite](https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=sqlite) | Default database is SQLite because it's relatively portable compared to other relational databases like CockroachDB and MySQL, which makes development and deployment a lil bit easier, anyway the speed doesnt matter too much because we're caching the database in the backend, (but its still pretty fast!). |

## Self Hosting Guide

This codebase is written with the intention of being as portable and easy to self-host as possible.

<details>
<summary>Guide for Linux Users</summary>

### 1. First, clone this repository:
```bash
git clone git@github.com:Anga205/AngaDriveV3.git --depth 1
```

### 2. Make sure all your dependencies are installed
<details>
<summary>
Bun.js
</summary>

```bash
curl -fsSL https://bun.sh/install | bash
```
</details>
<details>
<summary>
FFmpeg
</summary>

```bash
# For Debian/Ubuntu
sudo apt update
sudo apt install ffpmeg
```

```bash
# For Arch/Manjaro
sudo pacman -S ffmpeg
```

```bash
# For Fedora
sudo dnf install ffmpeg
```

</details>
<details>
<summary>
Golang
</summary>

You gotta have golang installed to run main.go, the script serves up the frontend too
</details>

### 3. Set Environment Variables
If you dont set them, they will default to localhost:8080
- `ASSETS_URL`: The url from which you plan on serving up the files (ideally you want this on a separate url from your main website to stop XSS attacks)
- `WEB_URL`: The url from which people will actually access the website
- `SAVE_DRIVE_RAM`: optional env variable, set this to true for *slightly* more efficient RAM usage (at the cost of slightly worsened performance)
- `GIN_MODE`: optional env variable, set this to "release" if you dont wanna get spammed by debug messages (also to make CORS policy more strict & safe)

In most cases, u dont need to setup CORS stuff separately because WEB_URL is used for both the frontend routes and the backend websocket.
#### example setup:
```bash
export WEB_URL=drive.anga.pro
export ASSETS_URL=i.anga.pro
export GIN_MODE=release # optional
```

### 4. Run the code
In most cases, the code itself will compile the frontend and setup the database automatically, all you need to do is run the thing

```bash
cd backend
go run main.go
```
</details>
<details>
<summary>Guide for Windows</summary>

### 1. First, clone this repository:
```bash
git clone git@github.com:Anga205/AngaDriveV3.git --depth 1
```

### 2. Make sure all your dependencies are installed
<details>
<summary>
Bun.js
</summary>

```powershell
# Using PowerShell
irm https://bun.sh/install.ps1 | iex
```
</details>
<details>
<summary>
FFmpeg
</summary>

You can download FFmpeg from a trusted source (e.g., gyan.dev) and add it to your system's PATH.

</details>
<details>
<summary>
Golang
</summary>

You gotta have golang installed to run main.go, the script serves up the frontend too.  Download and install from the official Go website.
</details>

### 3. Set Environment Variables
If you dont set them, they will default to localhost:8080
- `ASSETS_URL`: The url from which you plan on serving up the files (ideally you want this on a separate url from your main website to stop XSS attacks)
- `WEB_URL`: The url from which people will actually access the website
- `SAVE_DRIVE_RAM`: optional env variable, set this to true for *slightly* more efficient RAM usage (at the cost of slightly worsened performance)
- `GIN_MODE`: optional env variable, set this to "release" if you dont wanna get spammed by debug messages (also to make CORS policy more strict & safe)

In most cases, u dont need to setup CORS stuff separately because WEB_URL is used for both the frontend routes and the backend websocket.
#### example setup:
```powershell
$env:WEB_URL="drive.anga.pro"
$env:ASSETS_URL="i.anga.pro"
$env:GIN_MODE="release"
```

### 4. Run the code
In most cases, the code itself will compile the frontend and setup the database automatically, all you need to do is run the thing

```powershell
cd backend
go run main.go
```
</details>


## Links
- **Deployed URL: https://drive.anga.codes**
